Lintouch Editor 1.2 Release Announcement

Martin Man

<mman@swac.cz>

September 28th, 2004

━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━

Table of Contents

1. Introduction
2. What's New In Lintouch Editor 1.2
3. Obtaining and Installing Lintouch Editor

    3.1. Ready Made Binaries

4. What is Lintouch
5. Screenshots

1. Introduction

Figure 1. Lintouch Logo

Lintouch Logo

After six months of development we (the Lintouch Team) are proud to announce
the availability of the new stable version of the Lintouch Editor.

Lintouch Editor is a tool to create the Lintouch Projects (control panels,
HMIs, MMIs or whatever name you use). Lintouch Editor is freely available to
download and use for non-commercial purposes.

Lintouch Editor is available for Linux and Windows in English, German, and
Czech version. Additionally it includes comprehensive and detailed help (in
English only) to get you started.

Please see Section 4, “What is Lintouch” for more information about Lintouch.

2. What's New In Lintouch Editor 1.2

GUI redesigned and reworked

    We have been inspired by popular open source applications and reworked the
    GUI so that it is more usable and pleasant to work with. We have also
    implemented mandatory features like zoom and undo/redo.

Redefined use cases

    We have also re-defined the use cases of editor and dropped several things
    that (according to our opinions) were inappropriate for the ordinary user.
    It's not necessary anymore to import Template Libraries manually for
    example.

Connection handling functionality dropped

    We have removed all free 1.0 version limitations. You have now the
    full-fledged editor to create complete projects, but, we have disabled the
    connection handling capabilities. In the human words it means, that you
    will have to purchase the professional version of the Lintouch Editor to be
    actually able to connect your control panels to the real world.

    Nevertheless, the reworked preview mode capabilities will allow you to see
    your panels in action even without connecting to the real world.

3. Obtaining and Installing Lintouch Editor

3.1. Ready Made Binaries

Lintouch can be downloaded and installed directly on the following platforms.
The detailed instructions are available at our website.

Note that you will need Lintouch Runtime installed and working for your
platform. Lintouch Editor uses several libraries distributed along with the
Runtime.

Windows 2000/XP

    Please see http://lintouch.org/win32 for more information.

Generic Linux binaries

    Please see http://lintouch.org/nonfree/lintouch-editor/linux/ for more
    information.

Debian/GNU Linux (sarge + sid)

    Please see http://lintouch.org/blog/download#linuxbin for more information.
    Lintouch Editor is available as a lintouch-editor debian package.

4. What is Lintouch

Lintouch is a real-time data monitoring/controlling system used in automation
industry and developed by S.W.A.C. GmbH Germany and S.W.A.C. Bohemia s.r.o.

Lintouch is an effort to build fully software-based open source control panel
software suite. Control panels are usually called HMI - Human Machine Interface
, or MMI - Man Machine Interface in the automation industry.

Lintouch supports variety of hardware/software platforms (Win32+Intel,
Linux+Intel, Linux+PPC).

Lintouch has been designed with extensibility in mind. New Server Plugins can
be developed to bring in new connectivity (ModBus/TCP, and Hilscher already
available). New Templates (GUI Objects) an be implemented to define new control
and visualization primitives (Buttons and Lamps already available).

To get more information about Lintouch please visit our website http://
lintouch.org.

5. Screenshots

Figure 2. Lintouch Editor

Lintouch Editor Screenshot

